Improve plugin descriptor warnings (#2836)
apache/logging-log4j2: src/site/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/faq.adoc

----
-keep,allowoptimization class org.apache.logging.log4j.** { *; }
----

[#plugin-descriptors]
== Why am I receiving warnings about missing plugin descriptors?

> Since Log4j 2.0

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

xref:manual/plugins.adoc[Log4j Plugins]
should be registered in a:

[source]
----
META-INF/org/apache/logging/log4j/core/config/plugins/Log4j2Plugins.dat
----

file on the classpath of the Java applications.

> Since Log4j 2.24.0, you will receive a warning if a plugin is not registered properly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starting with Log4j version `2.24.0`, you will receive a warning if a plugin is not registered properly.
```

The common causes for improperly registered plugins are:

* One of the xref:components.adoc[Log4j artifacts] might be corrupted.
If you are using a single-JAR application, this might be caused by an improper shading configuration.
See <<shading>> on how to properly shade Log4j artifacts.
* A custom Log4j plugin has not been properly registered.
See xref:manual/plugins.adoc#plugin-registry[Registering plugins] for more details.

[#single-jar]

> == How to correctly create single-JAR applications?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== How do I create a single-JAR application containing Log4j Core?
```

There are two ways to create single-JAR applications: you can create
<<jar-in-jar,JAR-in-JAR executable packages>>
or
<<shading,shaded JARs>>.
See the sections below on how to properly use these techniques with Log4j Core.

[#jar-in-jar]
=== Jar-in-Jar

> The easiest and recommended way to create single-JAR applications based on Log4j Core is to include **unmodified** versions of Log4j artifacts inside the JAR file of your application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The easiest and recommended way to create single-JAR applications containing Log4j Core is to include **unmodified** versions of Log4j artifacts inside the JAR file of your application.
```

* https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/gradle-plugin/packaging.html[Spring Boot Gradle Plugin],
* https://github.com/sbt/sbt-onejar[sbt-onejar plugin].

[#shading]
=== Shading/Shadowing

The shading process unwraps all the files contained in dependency JARs and copies them to the JAR containing the application.
Since multiple JARs can contain files with the same name, you need to properly resolve the file naming conflicts that arise.

If your application uses Log4j Core, the following conflicts must be resolved:

`module-info.class`::
If you are writing a JPMS application, you need to propertly merge these files.
Otherwise, they should be discarded.

`META-INF/MANIFEST.MF`::
+
If you are writing a Java SE application, you only need to add:
+
[source,manifest]
----
Multi-Release: true
----
+
to your application manifest.
+
If you are writing an OSGi application, you need to properly merge the OSGi headers.

`META-INF/DEPENDENCIES`::
`META-INF/LICENSE`::
`META-INF/NOTICE`::
Ask your legal department on how to handle these files.

`META-INF/services/*`::
These files contain
https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/util/ServiceLoader.html[`ServiceLoader` descriptors].

> You need to properly merge them by concatenating conflicting files.

Reviewer: **Tip:** You can consider moving this to a `collapsible`.

Author: Fixed in https://github.com/apache/logging-log4j2/pull/2836/commits/939de777cd047753b393365506cbe54e34a7af9b
